I have rated the papers according to a scale [1 - 10] ([1-5]: reject,
[6-10]: accept) which at least allows to compare the four papers I
reviewed.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Probabilistic Planning with Constraint Satisfaction techniques
Nathanael Hyafil

The idea of using CSPs for (Conformant) Probabilistic Planning is
interesting and, as far as I know, original. The author claims that
the search tree of the CSP allows for a parsimonious exploration of
the plan space (non-reachable states are pruned) which may
counterbalance the combinatorial explosion of the number of explored
possible plans.

In the section "The CSP variables", I was first surprised to see that
random variables are represented as (decision) variables in the
CSP. Modeling random variables as decision variables only makes sense
for checking reachability (that is, there exists a value of the random
variables such that ...). This is, of course, the case in the paper,
but it should be made more clear in this section.

The section about the CfPplan algorithm could be improved by giving
some more detail about the caching mechanisms and how belief states are
represented in the CSP framework.

The comparison with POMDPs seems to show that CfPplan works better
only for small plans which is not really satisfying, especially if we
consider the fact that POMDP is a very generic tool whereas CfPplan if
dedicated to conformant planning problems. So I think that the
advantages of the CfPplan approach should be more explicitely
described.

A very similar paper seems to have been accepted at the technical
program, so if this paper is accepted at the doctoral consortium, I
would suggest that the presentation at the technical program is enough
(unless the paper accepted at the technical program is really
different).

Globally, I would recommand the acceptance of this work at the
doctoral consortium.

Rating: 6

Possible mentors :
- Sylvie Thiébaux (Sylvie.Thiebaux@anu.edu.au)
- Enrico Giunchiglia (enrico@dist.unige.it)
- Alessandro Cimatti (cimatti@irst.itc.it)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Simple Temporal Problems with Preferences and Uncertainty
Kristen Brent Venable and Neil Yorke-Smith

The authors combine two existing extensions of Simple Temporal
Problems (namely: STP with Preferences and STP with Uncertainties)
into a framework that handle both preferences and uncertainty.  The
resulting formalism is very expressive and its computational
complexity is shown to be similar to the one of the individual
extensions (at least as far as strong and weak controllability is
concerned) that is, there is not an explosion of complexity due to
combining the two features. Extending this work to dynamic
controllability is part of the future work and would be of high
practical interest.  The study is really promising and I think this
work completly deserves to be presented at the doctoral consortium.

Rating: 8

Possible mentors :
- Thierry Vidal (thierry@enit.fr)
- Paul Morris (pmorris@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
How to planning in presence of uncertain resources
Valentina Poggioni

The paper describes the "fuzzification" of DPPlan with respect to
resource conditions and effects.

Although the proposed model may be of interest (modeling each resource
quantity or interval by a trapezoidal fuzzy interval), the
corresponding extension of the notions of solution plans, action
executability and action simultaneity are fairly straightforward. I
have the feeling that most of the existing planners that handle
resources could easily and naturally be extended toward fuzzy
intervals (at least the ones based on UCPOP, Graphplan, HTN and
heuristic) as long as their "deterministic" version can be expressed
in terms of operators = (assignement), + and inclusion over classical
sets which only need to be replaced by the corresponding operators on
fuzzy sets.

In Proposition 1: I could not find where the variables alpha_j_i are
defined


Some typos:

Title of the paper: "How to planning..." <-> "How to plan..." ??
Introduction: ". The types..."
After Definition 1: "and in (Rintanen&Jungholt 1999) as..." <-> "has"
Same page, Col2: "A case not yet covered ... say A1 whose assigns..." <-> "who assigns"
References: Chien, S.e.
References: In Zadeh's article title: "Fuzy" <-> "Fuzzy"

Rating: 5

Possible mentors:
- Jana Koehler (koe@zurich.ibm.com)
- Jörg Hoffmann (hoffmann@informatik.uni-freiburg.de)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Using a Resource-Based Framework to Integrate Planning and Replanning
Roman van der Krogt

The form of the paper is very loose: the main ideas being that both
planning and replanning can be seen as the transformation of a
pre-existing plan and that under some intuitive conditions on the
completeness of the plan library, addition and deletion operators on
plans are sufficient to ensure the completeness of the search for a
solution. The problem is that the discussion is at such a general and
informal level that it is hard to assess the real contribution of this
paper. It is a pity because, as suggested by the experiments to
implement existing planning algorithms on top of the proposed
architecture, there seem to be some solid work under this paper.

Rating: 3

Possible mentors:
- Manuela Veloso (veloso@cs.cmu.edu)
- Kristian Hammond (hammond@infolab.nwu.edu)

