

           Software of Dynamic Algorithms for Transitive Closure
           -----------------------------------------------------


1. INTRODUCTION
---------------

This directory contains the software (source code) of the dynamic 
algorithms for transitive closure described and experimentally 
evaluated in the article 

 "An Experimental Study of Dynamic Algorithms for Transitive Closure"

by D. Frigioni, T. Miller, U. Nanni, and C. Zaroliagis, which appears
in ACM Journal of Experimental Algorithmics, Vol. 6, 2001.

The implementation of the algorithms is based (and constitutes part of) 
the LEDA Extension Package on Dynamic Graph Algorithms (LEP-DGA). 
The current software, in addition to the dynamic transitive
closure algorithms, contains also the necessary base classes of the
LEP-DGA developed and maintained by D. Alberts, G. Cattaneo and G. Italiano
(suitably modified by G. Prasinos and C. Zaroliagis to run with LEDA-4.2).

The current package runs under SUN Solaris or Linux operating systems, g++-2.95
compiler and requires the LEDA-4.2 version. The file INSTALL provides
installation instructions and an overview of the contents of the various
subdirectories.


2. CONTENTS
-----------

The directory exp-dtc contains the source (under subdirectory exp-dtc/src) and header
files (under directory exp-dtc/incl) of the software package. 
There is also a demo program (dtc_demo) under the subdirectory exp-dtc/demo,
as well as a graphic experimentation platform under exp-dtc/test.
The experimentation platform (dtc_test) can be also invoked (after installation)
from the directory Experiments. 

The implementations include algorithms for dynamic transitive closure by Italiano
(Ital, Ital-NR, Ital-Opt, Ital-Gen), Yellin (Yellin, Yellin-SG), Cicerone et al 
(CFNP, CFNP-Opt), and Henzinger & King (HK-1, HK-2). More details for these
algorithms can be found in the afore mentioned article.

The README files in the various subdirectories provide further information.


3. COPYRIGHT
------------

There is a copyright on most of the implementations (see the the corresponding files), 
but permission is granted to use, copy, modify and distribute this software for 
non-commercial purpose without fee, provided that the authors' names  are still included. 
All software in this package is  provided "AS  IS" without any express or implied
warranty.


4. FURTHER REMARKS
------------------

We hope that you will find this package interesting or even stimulating 
for further research. Any feedback regarding the software and especially
its use in another project would be greatly appreciated. Please send your 
feedback to: 

     zaro@ceid.upatras.gr


