PAPER TITLE: Airspace Sectorization with Constraints

AUTHOR(S): Huy Trandac, Philippe Baptiste and Vu Duong

RELEVANCE AND CLASSIFICATION

Does the paper well fit into RAIRO Operations Research Journal

 (X) yes

 ( ) only of limited interest

 ( ) no

ORIGINALITY

Does the paper present original results ?

 (X) yes, the paper presents an original application of existing methods
 
 ( ) interesting improvement of existing approaches
 
 ( ) minor improvement of existing approaches

 ( ) not original 

SIGNIFICANCE

Are the problems, approaches, and results of the paper significant ?

 ( ) very significant

 (X) significant

 ( ) only of minor significance

 ( ) not significant

TECHNICAL QUALITY

Is the considered problem well-defined and the approach well-developed?
Are the results of the paper correctly validated? (Are proofs of theorems correct?
Are algorithms implemented? Are benchmarks for implemented systems reported?)

 ( ) technical quality is very good

 (X) some minor technical issues need to be clarified

 ( ) some major technical issues need to be improved

 ( ) technical quality is insufficient

PRESENTATION

Is the paper well-presented, well-organized and self-contained? Is the length of 
the paper appropriate to the results presented?

 (X) the paper reads fine for a large readership

 ( ) the paper reads fine for a specialist, but could be improved
     in order to address a larger readership

 ( ) readability can be improved by minor revisions 

 ( ) major revisions are needed to make the paper comprehensible

 ( ) the paper is not comprehensible 

MOTIVATION 

Does it well motivate the considered approach ? 

 (X) yes

 ( ) the given motivation can be improved 

 ( ) no sufficient motivation is given

OVERALL RECOMMENDATION

 (X) Accept with minor revisions

 ( ) Accept with major revisions

 ( ) Reject 

DETAILED COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE AUTHORS

Overall, I find the paper describes a very interesting and challenging
application, motivates the approach well and is nicely written. The
main idea is to use a combination of Graph Partitioning techniques,
Constraint Programming, Large Neighborhood and Local Search to solve a
problem of airspace sectorization with complex constraints.

Here are some more detailed comments:

It is said in section 2 that determining the "best" (or even a good)
triangulation is out of the scope of this paper, which I
understand very well. But were some experiments made to see how the
final result is sensitive to the initial triangulation ?

In section 4.1 about finding an initial solution, something should be
said about recursive bisection in the context of Graph Partitioning
(for instance a reference to [1]). Furthermore, it is not clear how
one handles number of sectors k that are not a power of 2.

In the same section, in the description of procedure KLPass, it should
be said somewhere that the pair of vertices (u^i,v^i) is effectively
exchanged as it seems to be the case in order that this is taken into
account when recomputing the gain of the other vertices.

In the end of section 4.1, it would be interesting to know if CP is
used to check valid moves (for instance for the balance constraint) or
if all the constraints are checked "by hand".

In the section on experimental results, does there exist some good
lower bound that could give an idea of how far from the optimum is the
best solution found ?

Looking at the average % of reduction, one can notice that the gain of
the re-optimization phase seems to decrease with the size of problems
(34% for 60 vertices, 17% for 500 vertices). Is there an explanation
for this phenomenon ?

What is the size of the group of sectors that are re-optimized in the
re-optimization phase ? In average, how many re-optimization
iterations are necessary before to reach a fix point and what was the
value for N (number of consecutive iterations without improvement
before to stop) ?


A typo:

In section 5, "the values of paparmeters ..."


[1] Horst D. Simon and Shang-Hua Teng, How Good is Recursive Bisection?,
SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing,18:5, pp1436--1445, 1997.



