6 6 5 6 7 6 8

This  paper  builds on  a recent paper   [Walsh-02] in two interesting
ways :
-    Firstly,  it proposes an   alternative    way to solve stochastic
constraint programming  problems by compiling     the problem into   a
largest but  easier  problem  involving only  non-stochastic variables
(classical CSP).
- Secondly, because the proposed resolution procedure is fairly robust
to extensions  of the model, it proposes  to enrich it with the notion
of chance constraints and  several new objective functions (stochastic
OPL).

About the first  point, although the idea  of working on a  predefined
set of  scenarii that  are suppose to   sample the complete   space of
scenarii is not new, its  application to constraint programming is, to
the best of my knowledge, original. In this context, finding a "small"
subset  of  such scenarii  is  an  important issue  and the  author(s)
borrows some techniques from stochastic programming.   I think that it
should be clearly stated somewhere  in the paper  that the size of the
non-stochastic   CSP is  equal  to n  times  the  size of the original
stochastic CSP if n is the number of scenarii.

Section 6 defined two indicators: VSS and EVPI that  do not seem to be
used later in  the paper.  One would  expect  that the value  of these
indicators is taken into account in the  experiments.  By the way, the
fact that VSS is non-negative is not clear to me. I do not see why the
value of the stochastic solution should be better than  the one of the
non-stochastic problem where stochastic  variables take their expected
value.   Unless   I'm missing something, I'm    pretty sure that there
should even be cases where the  expected value of stochastic variables
corresponds to a best case scenario.

About the  second item, surprisingly,  the notion of  "stage" which is
important in   the  definition of stochastic   CSP  is not  explicitly
present  in the stochastic OPL  language. Indeed, we  could expect the
variables of the global  CSP to be partitioned  into "stages" that are
subset of variables.

In the conclusion, it is mentioned that the assumption that stochastic
variables are independent has been relaxed. I do  not find any support
for this in the stochastic OPL language.

A small typo:
-  in  section  7,  in the  definition  of  \pi_i(j),  one should read
   \pi_i(j) instead of \pi_j(j)





The paper explores   an alternative method  to  [Walsh-02] for solving
stochastic constraint programming  problems.   Whereas  in  [Walsh-02]
stochastic variables were directly taken  into  account in the  search
tree, in the  present approach, a set  of relevant scenarii are  first
generated. Then, solutions are generated and  evaluated based on those
scenarii. The main advantage  of this approach  is that the stochastic
problem  is compiled   into classical non-stochastic  CSP solved  with
efficient methods.    An experimental study  is  described that shows,
among other  things  that  this alternative  approach outperforms  the
previous one. Additionally, the formalism of stochastic CP is extended
by  the notion of chance  constraint and some new objective functions.
This extended formalism  is captured into  a stochastic variant of the
OPL language.
