The  paper shows how results from  discrete nonlinear optimization can
be used to improve the convergence of a planner like ASPEN.  This idea
is clearly interesting but the present paper does not improve a lot on
a recent   paper [1] accepted  at ICAPS-03.  The   main advance is the
ability to deal   with multi-objective problems  by  reformulating the
problem  of finding  a pareto  optimal solution  as a single-objective
min-max optimization problem.


I do not agree with all the claims about present  planners made in the
introduction.  First,  ASPEN  is  not the  only  planner to  deal with
multi-objective criterion. See for instance  MO-GRT [2]. Secondly, the
idea of dynamically pruning the search is at the heart of all planners
based  on constraint-propagation [3,4].    And here also,  the pruning
helps a lot reducing the base of the exponential.


The description of the experiments with ASPEN should deserve much more
space in the paper. Nothing is said about what kind of constraints and
objectives  are    used for   modeling  the  problem.   Furthermore, a
limitation of the  proposed approach is clearly   the total number  of
steps N and the bucketization of time. Usually, bucketizations of time
lead to a relaxation of the original problem as  it is not possible to
associate  a state to each possible  date (this why linear programming
and mixed  integer programming are not  very good at solving classical
scheduling problems).


[1] Y. Chen, B. Wah, "Automated Planning and Scheduling using Calculus
of Variations in Discrete Space". Proc. ICAPS-03.


[2] I.  Refanidis, I. Vlahavas, "The MO-GRT System: Heuristic Planning
with Multiple Criteria",  AIPS-02 Workshop on Planning and  Scheduling
with Multiple Criteria, Toulouse, France, 2002.


[3] P. van  Beek, X. Chen.  "CPlan:  A constraint programming approach
to   planning".   Proceedings  of the   16th    National Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Orlando, Florida, 585-590, July, 1999.

[4] M.   Do, S.   Kambhampati.  "Planning as  Constraint Satisfaction:
Solving  the  planning graph  by compiling it   into CSP".  Artificial
Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence, 132 (2) (2001) pp. 151-182.

Some additional minor remarks:
- What does DCV stand for in DCV-CSA ?
- In beginning of section 3, it seems to me that an inequality constrain 
g(x) <=0 should be modeled by H(g(x))=0 where H(y)=0 for g<=0 (and 
not g(x)=0 as metioned) 




This  paper seems to  be a small  improvement over a recently accepted
paper at ICAPS'03  [1]. I  don't   think that these improvements   can
justify an acceptation at IJCAI-03. Furthermore, all the weaknesses of
the ICAPS paper are still present  here, specially with respect to the
empirical study on ASPEN.

[1] Y. Chen, B. Wah, "Automated Planning and Scheduling using Calculus
of Variations in Discrete Space". Proc. ICAPS-03.



The paper studies the application  of non-linear discrete optimization
to solve multi-objective temporal planning problems.

The  introduction describes the notion of  pareto optimal solution and
how  multi-objective  problems can be   formulated as single-objective
dynamic  optimization problem by  using  a  minimax  approach. In  the
second  section,  the  authors  introduce   the notion   of  dominance
relations (path- and   node-dominance) that helps pruning  the  search
space by   eliminating dominated solutions.  A specific node-dominance
relation is described in  section 3 where  it is shown that a dominant
state must  correspond to a  saddle  point of a  particular lagrangian
sub-function.   This   node-dominance  relation   is  exploited by   a
constrained    simulated   annealing   algorithm     (DCV+CSA)    that
asymptotically  converges to  a  pareto  optimal solution.   The  last
section presents  an empirical study of how  the DCV+CSA algorithm can
help ASPEN to quickly converge to a pareto optimal solution.
