5 4 5 6 2 4 5

The main topic  of the paper is  how to optimize the ratio: efficiency
of global  problem solving   /  communication  between agents  in    a
multi-agent  environment  where exchanging information  between agents
has some  cost.  This issue  is indeed essential  in many  application
domains where agents have to cooperate.

The proposed approach is also  clearly relevant: basically, because of
the   restricted communication, each agent  must   exploit as much  as
possible the  small amount of information it  gets from the  others in
order to "guess" which problem the others are trying to solve and what
is their current plans.

The problem  with   the  paper  is  that  the   approach is   at  once
instantiated over an    "hyper-simplified"  problem (namely:   meeting
scheduling) and lacks some formalization.  A consequence is that it is
not very easy  to  see how it can    be generalized to   other domains
(except of  course for the general  principle of inferring information
from agent communication).

Due to this  lack of  formalism, some  concepts are  not clear. Mainly
because  their  exact semantics   is never   defined.  For example,  I
understand  that the set of possible-cause  values must be included in
the set of possible-has-meeting  values but I   do not understand  why
they  are    not equal.   Stated    otherwise,   if  a  value   is  in
possible-has-meeting,   why could  it  not  be a   possible  cause for
rejecting a meeting ?

In the beginning of section 3, it  is mentioned that information about
possible values are modeled by a CSP with only unary constraints. What
is the interest to model it as a CSP in this context ?

In the  end of section  3, one reads  "as search  proceeds, values are
deleted from the  domains of the first  two CSP's (possible-xxx) while
they are added to  the last three ones.   I guess it  is not  the same
values  that are removed from one  CSP and added to  another one.  The
sentence is a bit ambiguous.

In section 4, the  loss of privacy is  evaluated in terms of the ratio
of "possibilities"  that are discarded  by a piece of information. The
exact   semantics of "possibility" in this   context  is never clearly
mentioned. Is it the size of one domain or the sum of the sizes of all
domains  in the CSPs  or the  cartesian  product  of all the  possible
schedules of an agent ?

In    section 5,   Figures 3   and  4   are not   readable  and  the 7
configurations   on  the x-axis are  not  explained  so  it is hard to
understand how the author(s) draw their conclusions.

In conclusion, I'm convinced that the work  behind this paper is solid
and very relevant but there is a problem  of form.  If the approach is
general enough (as  I think  it is), it  should be  formally presented
before its    instantiation  on an  example  (the   meeting scheduling
example, even if  very naive,  is fine  from this point  of view)  and
clear definitions should be provided.

 









The  paper  is about multi-agent  problem  solving in a  context where
communication  between agents is restricted due  to privacy concern or
system   limitations.  The approach  is   illustrated on a  simplified
meeting scheduling problem.  In the proposed  approach, each agent can
make some inference based on the limited communication it has received
from  the  others. It  allows   each agent  to  maintain  some "shadow
constraint networks" that describe the possible states of other agents
or,    more precisely,   their    possible    problems   and   current
solutions. Propagation and   heuristic techniques on  these constraint
networks improves the global problem solving process and may permit to
detect "lying" agents.
