6 5 6 6 7 6 6

This is  an  interesting paper  illustrating  the interest  of  bucket
elimination  on optimization   problems for  which  the  width  of the
constraint graph is small enough (2 in  the case of finding still-life
patterns in Conway's game of life). The beauty of the approach clearly
relies on its simplicity.

In  concurrent  approaches based  on  CP, and   particularly the CP/IP
approach, the authors seem to be optimistic about improving the global
efficiency by working on symmetry breaking and better cooperation with
the  linear   constraints.   For  the present   approach,  the  memory
complexity  seems to  be a wall   difficult to push since  the average
complexity is basically the  same as the worst  case one. I think that
this issue should be discussed in the paper.


In  the experimental part,   I  really  think   that the  fact   other
approaches are using commercial softwares is clearly an advantage from
the standpoint of development time (see how concise are the OPL models
of [Bosch,Trick,2002]  but certainly not   from the  point of view  of
efficiency for such a specific optimization problem.

In section 5, an  additional constraint restricting optimal  solutions
to be  symmetric is added to simplify  the problem. Is  there a formal
proof that there  always exists a symmetric  optimal solution or is it
the case  that this additional constraint  can result in worse optimal
solutions.  In  this  last case,  would    it be possible  to  provide
theoretical bounds   on the   approximation ?   Otherwise, restricting
oneself to symmetric optimal solutions does not make a lot of sense.
 
Why the times given for CP/IP-sym are different on figures 4 and 5 for
n=12,14 and 15 ? It sounds like a typo.

In beginning of section 4: one should read 270 degrees instead of 170.






The paper applies bucket elimination to the problem of finding maximum
density finite  "still   life" patterns in Conway's   game  of life. A
review  of the existing approaches    to  handle this problem   (using
constraint programming and  integer programming)  is presented in  the
introduction. The second section recaps  the bucket elimination scheme
while the  third one  describes how  bucket elimination  is used  on a
weighted CSP formulation of the   problem. Experimental results  shows
that the approach outperforms basic  search algorithms and compares to
more    sophisticated  ones. The    two   last sections  present  some
improvements of the approach (section 4) and some approximation scheme
(section 5) based on symmetries.
