PAPER TITLE: Crane Scheduling with Spatial Constraints: Mathematical Model and Solving Approaches

AUTHOR(S): Yi Zhu and Andrew Lim

RELEVANCE AND CLASSIFICATION

Does the paper well fit into AMAI

 (X) yes

 ( ) only of limited interest

 ( ) no

ORIGINALITY

Does the paper present original results ?

 (X) yes, the paper presents an original results
 
 ( ) interesting improvement of existing approaches
 
 ( ) minor improvement of existing approaches

 ( ) not original 

SIGNIFICANCE

Are the problems, approaches, and results of the paper significant ?

 ( ) very significant

 (X) significant

 ( ) only of minor significance

 ( ) not significant

TECHNICAL QUALITY

Is the considered problem well-defined and the approach well-developed?
Are the results of the paper correctly validated? (Are proofs of theorems correct?
Are algorithms implemented? Are benchmarks for implemented systems reported?)

 ( ) technical quality is very good

 (X) some minor technical issues need to be clarified

 ( ) some major technical issues need to be improved

 ( ) technical quality is insufficient

PRESENTATION

Is the paper well-presented, well-organized and self-contained? Is the length of 
the paper appropriate to the results presented?

 (X) the paper reads fine for a large readership

 ( ) the paper reads fine for a specialist, but could be improved
     in order to address a larger readership

 ( ) readability can be improved by minor revisions 

 ( ) major revisions are needed to make the paper comprehensible

 ( ) the paper is not comprehensible 

MOTIVATION 

Does it well motivate the considered approach ? 

 (x) yes

 ( ) the given motivation can be improved 

 ( ) no sufficient motivation is given

OVERALL EVALUATION

 () Accept as is 

 (X) Accept with minor revisions 

 () Reject with encouragement to resubmit

 () Reject

DETAILED COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE AUTHORS

Section 4 (B&B Algorithm)

It is  not said how  EAT(i,k)  is computed.  It  is  essential for the
understanding of the B&B algorithm. This section should be improved by
describing how EAT(i,k) is computed.

The authors only speak about the crane allocation but never about when
the job is scheduled.  Does it mean that, once  a crane allocation has
been   found,  the optimal schedule   that  minimizes  the makespan is
trivial to find ? In such way, the problem is more of partitioning the
jobs  among cranes (as  suggested by the NP-completeness proof) rather
than a scheduling problem. If not and if, as I believe, the scheduling
of  jobs   is implicit  (that  is:    "decision of   one  job-to-crane
assignment"  actually means "decision  of  one job-to-crane assignment
and   scheduling of this  job as  soon  as possible  given the current
assignments"), then it should be stated explicitly.

Section 5.1 (Neighborhood Moves)

The kind  of move described  in this section  is very close to what is
done  in  Large Neighborhood Search (LNS)   rather than in traditional
Local Search. As for LNS, a  part of the schedule  is frozen, the rest
is partially unfrozen and  a   search is  performed on  this   partial
solution: here, simply by  trying several orderings for inserting  the
unfrozen tasks with  a greedy algorithm.  Other search, starting  from
this partial solution are possible: in particular some search inspired
by the B&B algorithm described in section 4.

Are there cases where only   reassigning the task(s) that finishes  at
the makespan (and all the related tasks) is  not really enough so that
one quickly get stuck to  local optima (in spite  of the SA) ? Did you
try reassigning more "trouble maker tasks" as for  instance the last k
tasks  of the  schedule (of course,  together  with all  their related
tasks) ?

Section 6 (Experimental Results)

The comparison of  the approach with a pure  LP approach is not really
relevant as it is known that LP approaches do not  behave well on such
kind  of  disjunctive scheduling   problems.  Maybe a  comparison with
Constraint-Based Scheduling  tools using  a predefined complete search
for this  problem could have  been more relevant.  Anyway, the results
obtained by the SA seems to be very good.   Is there an explanation to
the  fact that "exp"  increases when the  number of cranes decreases ?
Is  it  be  because in  this  case, the  lower  bound  is  worse (this
hypothesis  could easily be checked on  the medium  size instances for
which  both the LB  and the optimal value  are known) or is it because
the  SA approach is less  good when there are  few cranes ? When there
are few cranes (for the  same number of jobs),  the CPU time of the SA
is smaller.  What if the same  time was allowed as  for when there are
more cranes, would the makespan significantly decrease ?

It would be a very good idea to put somewhere on a public web page the
actual data (processing time of jobs)  for all the instances mentioned
in the paper to serve as a benchmarks for other approaches.

The paper starts with a presentation of  the practical applications of
crane scheduling  and the important role it  plays.  Was  the proposed
approach tested on real  life problem instances and,  by the way, what
is the average size of the real problems ? Is it  of the same order as
the large instances or significantly larger ?

Minor corrections: 

p2:  the  reference to Sabria and  Daganzo  is repeated twice  in very
close sentences (one time should be enough) and both times mispelled.

p7: several notations where already introduced before (m,n,p_i,c_i)

p9: "shifting a subset OF jobs to cranes"

REVIEWER: Philippe Laborie
