Reviewer: P. LABORIE
(Your name will be deleted before transmission to authors)

Cohen, Cooper, Jeavons and Kroknin:
A Maximal Tractable Class of Soft Constraints    AI 3082
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       
CONTENT
						Yes     No
Is the paper technically sound? Yes
Is the work described original? Yes
Does it show sufficient applicability to AI? Yes
Does it place new results in appropriate context with earlier work? Yes
Does anything need to be added or deleted? No
Is the result important enough to warrant publication? Yes

FORM
						Yes     No

Does the abstract adequately reflect the contents? No

 I think it should be stated in the abstract that this work is done in
 the context   where the  combination   of the  individual  constraint
 evaluations  is the sum (or  more generally,  an aggregation operator
 with a partial inverse). This is indeed a very important assumption.
 
Are the summary and conclusions adequate? Yes
Does it contain adequate references to previous work? Yes
Does it explain clearly what was done that is new? Yes
Does it clearly indicate why this work is important? Yes
Is the English satisfactory? Yes
Is the presentation otherwise satisfactory? Yes
Are there an appropriate number of figures? Yes
Do the figures help clarify the concepts in the paper? Yes

RECOMMENDATION - Please delete categories not needed.

Publish with minor revision


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments to editor:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments to author(s):

The  paper  describes a   maximal  tractable   class of   soft  binary
constraints:  the  ones for which the  evaluation  of each constraints
corresponds to a  binary   submodular function.   In this  case,   the
evaluations   functions can  be   expressed as  a   sum of generalized
interval functions and the problem can be solved as a minimum weighted
cut on a directed  graph.  Proofs of  tractability and of the fact the
language  is   maximally tractable  are provided.    The class of soft
binary constraints is illustrated with several examples.

I  have few  comments  about  the heart   of the paper,  that is   the
definition of the class of soft constraints that is considered and the
proof  that it  is    maximally  tractable. Everything is    carefully
explained, it is well written and organized. The proofs are not always
easy to follow but the figures really help. So my main comment is that
it is a very good paper that represents a significant amount of work.

One   thing which is hard to    figure out is  how   big is the set of
submodular binary constraints.  In  the paper, there are many examples
of  submodular   binary  constraints   and    only  one  example    of
non-submodular one  (but a very  important one  in practice):  x!=y. I
think it  would  be  interesting  to give   a  few  other examples  of
non-submodular binary constraints.

In the conclusion: the last sentence reads  "By combining these ideas,
we  obtain a flexible and powerful   modeling language with a provably
efficient solution strategy".   This affirmation seems  a bit too much
categorical. It is not clear that the results in the paper can lead to
some "efficient" solution strategy as the complexity in O(n^3|D|^3) is
not really realistic for a  practical implementation unless for  small
problems and small domains of variables.  Of course, the piece of work
described in  the article is an important  step in this  direction but
I'm not convinced that  the proposed algorithms are,  as such, of very
practical interest. So I think this last sentence should be soften.

It would be interesting to see if part of the results presented in the
article using the concept of submodular function  could be extended to
n-ary   soft constraints. For  instance,  is  the  space of submodular
ternary constraints polynomial or not ?

A couple of minor comments or typos

* Close to  the top of page  10, after the decomposition of "\Psi(x)",
  one should   add   something  like   "so  each unary  function    is
  submodular."

* On the first list item on page 4, the font used  for "min" and "max"
  is not the same as the  one for "max" and "plus"  whereas I think it
  should be

