----------------------------------------------------------------------
Paper review  for the  Special  Issue on  Planning of the  Constraints
Journal

Reviewer: Philippe Laborie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Paper title: 

Constraint-based Attribute and Interval Planning
Jeremy Frank and Ari Jonsson


Significance: 

This paper introduces the paradigm  of "constraint-based attribute and
interval  planning"  which    consists in  applying   constraint-based
representations and resolution  techniques  to planning  problems. The
representation is based  on the  notion  of "intervals". I think  this
work  offers a  significant  advance  in the state   of the  art in AI
planning.  In   particular,  it  shows  that,  in  the  context  of an
interval-based representation, constraint-based approaches can support
a rich expressivity and  flexibility (time, complex domain axioms, and
more generally, any specific domain-dependent constraint).

The choice of "intervals" and  "attributes" as the main ingredients of
the  representation  is   well justified    from the  standpoint    of
constraint-based   approaches   as it    makes   it easy to  implement
constraint propagation and  search techniques.  But  it has a drawback
from the modeling  perspective: it is  an "attribute"-centric approach
instead of the  traditional  --and more  natural--  "operator"-centric
one.  For example,  adding a new operator in  the  domain will require
revising all the attributes.   I think, it  should  be fairly easy  to
automatically translate (compile) an  "operator"-centric model (as for
example, the one of IxTeT) into the CAIP representation. Of course, as
far   as  domain axioms  are   concerned,  the  CAIP representation is
certainly  the  most natural one.   These  modeling issues  should  be
discussed more in detail in the paper.


Originality: 

As  mentioned by the authors, the  work heavily builds on two previous
contributions: RAP and IxTeT.  More precisely, the originality of this
contribution  is  to extend  the expressivity of  these planners while
keeping a sound theoretical   justification and embedding  the overall
approach into a constraint-based reasoning framework which is known to
be flexible and efficient.


Quality: 

The paper seem to be technically sound. But many issues are left aside
as for example:
(1) the already mentioned modeling problem;
(2) the representation allows  for values description  as a tuple with
    arguments "p(x1,...,xk)".    Why  is  it  not also  the   case for
    attribute descriptions, that  is, "a(x1,...,xk)" instead of  "a" ?
    Without  this additional expressivity,   modeling  for example   a
    domain  with n rovers requires  multiplying by a  factor n all the
    attributes and compatibility rules.
(3) the constraint-propagation algorithms: although  it is clear  that
    classical temporal constraints  or resource constraint propagation
    algorithms can (and should) be used, it may still result in a poor
    sub-optimal propagation  and  more global algorithms  (for example
    taking into account the finite state automata of attributes or the
    conjunction of compatibility rules) should surely be designed;
(4) the search  space exploration  is far  from being  easy: classical
    heuristics   in  constraint-based       approaches like     simple
    variable/value ordering will certainly perform very poorly so that
    heuristics    based on the  characteristic   of   the problem  (AI
    planning) will have to be developed.

It is clear that  a detailed description of how  to solve these issues
is out  of the  scope of the  present  paper but  it should  at  least
mention them and give some evidence that they can be overcome.

It is not said in the paper whether the  approach has been implemented
and tested on some realistic planning domain.

The distinction between   sequenced  and  non-sequenced intervals   in
candidate plans is somehow not sufficiently motivated. It's clear that
there is a global constraint stating that in  a solution plan, all the
intervals are  sequenced but using  the  notion of sequenced intervals
for candidate plans  seems to implicitly  assume a forward or backward
chaining approach or at least that temporal  constraints can be posted
during  planning only  between sequenced   and not-sequenced intervals
which  seems  to  be  restrictive. Is  it  not enough   to say  that a
candidate plan refers to a partially ordered set of intervals ?


Clarity: 

The paper is sometimes not very easy to follow. 

For example in  section 3.2.1, it is not  clear whether the "Parameter
constraint" is  part   of  the condition   or  of the  effect  of  the
compatibility    structure.   Only after  reading   definition 3.1 one
understands that it is part of the "effect" of the compatibility rule.

The format for   compatibility rules given  in  section 3.2.1  is  not
exactly the same as the one used in the examples in sections 3.2.3 and
3.2.4.  (configuration/configuration rule).   Furthermore, and this is
more   disturbing,  in section 3.2.4,   I  do not   understand why the
"Parameter Constraints": p=at-bef-go,  p=turn-bef-go,  etc...  are not
labeled as "Guards"  (as described  in  the  text).   In general,  the
format used to describe compatibility  rules is  not  easy to read  at
all.

Some typos:
* Section 2.2, p5, paragraph 1: "New now turn ..."
* Section 3.3, p13, last paragraph:  "Since these add decisions to  th
  plan ..."


Overall comment:

I think  this paper is original  and provides a promising approach for
embedding planning into  a constraint-based approach.  Nevertheless, I
think it  should give more theoretical  or experimental evidences that
the  potential issues raised   by  the approach   (c.f. above)  can be
overcome  (actually, I personally  do not  doubt  about it). For these
reasons, I would  lean to accept  this paper for  a publication in the
Special Issue on Planning of the Constraints Journal.
