----------------------------------------------------------------------
Revision review  for the Special Issue on  Planning of the Constraints
Journal

Reviewer: Philippe Laborie

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Paper title: 

Constraint-based Attribute and Interval Planning
Jeremy Frank and Ari Jonsson


The  authors have really improved  their paper  and taken into account
most of the comments from the reviewers.

In particular, it has been precised in section  2.1 how intervals deal
with  instances of    attributes.   Furthermore, the   section   about
constraint propagation has been extended (now sections 4 and 5). This
really makes the things more clear.

On page  3, one reads:  "Neither approach [IxTeT   and RAP] provided a
sound,  theoretical  justification   for  the   representations  used,
concentrating instead on describing  the planning algorithm".  I don't
think this statement is true, at least as far as IxTeT is concerned as
the  representation  used in IxTeT has   been studied for  long in the
beginning of  the 90s  in  the context  of  temporal  reasoning.   The
semantics of the IxTeT representation based on "events" and "hold" was
clearly defined. As an example, this IxTeT representation is also used
for online supervision of complex  systems (alarm filtering); see  for
example [DGG-93]; which show that  the focus of IxTeT  was not only on
planning algorithms.   Furthermore, as far  as planning  is concerned,
there  is  also  some   theoretical results  on   the  soundness   and
completeness  of the  IxTeT planner. So   I  think that  this sentence
should either be removed or the authors should  explain more in detail
what   they   exactly mean by  "not     providing a sound, theoretical
justification for the representation".

[DGG-93]  Christophe   Dousson,   Paul  Gaborit  and  Malik   Ghallab,
"Situation Recognition: Representation and Algorithms", In Proceedings
IJCAI-93, pp166-172, Chambéry, 1993

Considering  the     discussion    between "attribute-centric"     and
"operator-centric" models, I   agree  that both have  advantages   and
drawbacks. I'm still not convinced that the attribute-centric approach
is always the most intuitive one for modeling (at least in the domains
I'm working on as  for instance in  production planning and scheduling
where the domain knowledge is really focused on describing the process
and each  operation in  the  process).   Anyway,  I really  think this
discussion  is out of  the scope of  the present paper.   And again, I
really believe in  the  interest of attribute-centric  approaches  for
problem solving as described in the paper.

A few typos I noticed:

p4, section 2: planning domain constriants
p13, line2: an analagous manner
p16, section 3.4: for which there two intervals A ...
p17, line 2: sastisfy
p20, section 4.4, line 2: there is an empty reference () after CSPs
p21, section 5.2: compaatibilities
p21, section 5.2, list item 1: a compatibility guard guard


As a conclusion, I recommend the acceptance of the last version of the
paper for the Special Issue on Planning of the Constraints Journal.
